Todo list.  Open items only - finished work is in CHANGELOG.md and in the commit
messages that made the changes, not kept here.  Checks that need a person with a
device are in MANUAL_CHECKS.md, one line each here.  WIP.md holds the
longer-form handoff notes.

Cites name a symbol or a greppable string, not a file:line; a line number reads
as evidence while carrying none.  Each item is tagged with what the machine
picking it up has to have.

Two rounds ran on 2026-08-29.  The first had an SDK, an NDK and an API 36
emulator, and its results are in CHANGELOG.md's Verified section.  The second
had neither, and closed the four code items that headed this file - the C++
shim's drift from the shared original, R8's dishonest "Reading:" line, and the
terminal's two gaps.  They are gone from here and are in CHANGELOG.md.

What that second round could not do is watch any of it run, which is why
MANUAL_CHECKS.md gained a section and why the first item below is new.


NOBODY HAS SEEN THE NEW TERMINAL RUN
-------------------------------------

- [ANDROID DEVICE or EMULATOR] the 2026-08-29 terminal round added VT52, a
scrolling region, DECSC/DECRC, the query replies, seven editing commands and
per-cell bold, underline, blink and reverse - and none of it has been drawn on a
screen.  What it did get is not nothing and is worth knowing before repeating
it: the whole of emu_io_android.cpp compiles under host clang++ at -Wall
-Wextra against the siblings' real headers, TerminalView.kt and
EmulatorEngine.kt compile under kotlinc against real Android framework classes
(org.robolectric:android-all, API 36), and android_host_path_basename() was run
against the shared original for 403,760 differential cases with no mismatch.
None of that is an APK.  MANUAL_CHECKS.md section 5 lists what to point at it,
and the four-face paint path and the blink tick are the two that most need a
real GPU rather than an argument.


NEEDS THE TABLET, NOT AN EMULATOR
----------------------------------

- [ANDROID DEVICE] the keyboard-aware work (690da30) has now been watched, but
on a stock API 36 AVD.  The tablet is a different question and MANUAL_CHECKS.md
keeps it: Samsung SM-X200, Android 14, with Smart Keyboard Pro as the IME.  The
AVD's keyboard is not evidence about a third-party one.  Insets were never the
problem there - ime.bottom=636 was measured in July - so what is unsettled is
the drawing, and the drawing has now changed twice: a background colour was
added under it, and then a second paint path beside it.

- [ANDROID DEVICE] four questions only a hand can answer, listed in
MANUAL_CHECKS.md and unchanged by either round: which way a drag should scroll,
how many lines it should move, how much blank space should sit above the prompt
on a fresh boot with empty history, and whether a drag should scroll at all
while the keyboard is up.  A fresh boot does show a large blank band above the
prompt on an AVD, which is the live screen anchored at the bottom with nothing
in history yet - by design, and still worth a person's opinion.


BEFORE ANYONE ADDS DISK-IMAGE HASH VERIFICATION, READ THIS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- [ANY] no disk image already on the device is ever hashed.  The catalog
document's sha256 is verified, and a download's bytes are verified as they
arrive, but nothing re-reads an installed file: isDiskDownloaded() decides by
filename.  That is
why the v0 migration needed no freshness work here, and it is also a trap for
whoever adds image verification later.
  hd1k_combo is the one image of twenty whose bytes differ between the pre-v0
catalog and catalog-v0-3.5.1.json, and the migration renames rather than
re-downloads, so every migrated device holds it under a hash the catalog does
not name.  It is not corrupt: the two images were compared byte for byte on
2026-09-05 and slice 0's directory lists the same 94 files, all 94 extract
byte-identical including r8.com and w8.com, slices 1-5 do not differ at all, and
the 2,342 bytes that do differ are CP/M slack between the files.  Two toolchains
wrote the same disk.
  So a naive "hash mismatch means re-download" would hand every migrated user a
49 MB download for nothing.  ioscpm and z80cpmw both carry the fix already -
CatalogMigration.equivalentPriorImage and diskv0::isEquivalentPriorImage, keyed
on provenance so that only the migration can produce it and a fresh download can
never be blessed by it.  Copy that shape rather than inventing one.
  romwbw_disks docs/FINDINGS.md section 10 has the measurements.

NOBODY HAS UPGRADED A DEVICE ACROSS THE V0 MIGRATION, OR SEEN THE CATALOG FETCH
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- [ANDROID DEVICE or EMULATOR] the v0 disk-name migration renames the user's
downloaded images, the copies they have written to from inside CP/M, and the
four disk_slot_N preferences that name them, and it has never run anywhere but
in an argument.  V0MigrationTest covers the name mapping and both directories
against temporary directories on a JVM, and those 14 tests now pass under the
host recipe in CHANGELOG.md's 1.27 preamble - not under Gradle, which still
cannot start here.  What no harness can settle is an upgrade in place over real
pre-v0 state, external storage that is not there, and a restore from backup with
allowBackup on: MANUAL_CHECKS.md section 6 has all three, and says to build the
old state first, because a fresh install has nothing to migrate and passes every
one of them for free.

- [ANDROID DEVICE or EMULATOR] releases B and C - the two-level catalog and the
RomWBW release picker - have never fetched anything.  What has been done is one
step further than 1.26 managed and worth knowing before repeating it: every
Kotlin source in the app type-checks under kotlinc against real android.*,
androidx, okhttp and coroutines classes with only R, BuildConfig and
ActivitySettingsBinding stubbed, and every JVM suite runs and passes.
CHANGELOG.md's 1.28 preamble has the exact recipe; it needs no SDK.  What none
of it reaches is a device.  MANUAL_CHECKS.md section 7 has the six that need
one, and its check 2 is the one to do first.  A Kotlin/C++ NAME mismatch in the
three JNI bindings added in 1.27 does now have a guard - JniNameParityTest reads
both source files as text and compares the lists in each direction, 35 names on
each side, 3 tests, recorded as run and passing in CHANGELOG.md's 1.27 entry -
but it is opt-in: it runs under `./gradlew :app:test`, README's build steps say
assembleDebug, and there is no CI, so an ordinary build of this tree still
catches nothing.  Past the name, nothing is guarded at all: per CHANGELOG.md's
1.27 entry the JNI translation unit has only been -fsyntax-only type-checked -
no object file, no .so, and no linker has ever looked for these symbols - so a
descriptor/signature mismatch, or a symbol the NDK never emitted, is still an
UnsatisfiedLinkError the first time Settings is opened and nowhere earlier.

- [ANDROID] DISK_NAMES_MIGRATION_PASS is 2 because release A shipped a flag
saying the rename was done while this build still downloaded pre-v0 names, so a
disk fetched under 1.26 could arrive after it.  Pass 2 sweeps those up.  There
should never be a pass 3: after this release the catalog publishes only v0
names.  If one is ever needed, that is evidence something started writing
pre-v0 names again, and the reason matters more than the sweep.

- [ANDROID DEVICE or EMULATOR] the ROM now comes from the catalog, the user
picks which one, and nothing about either has been watched on a screen.  What
was run is in CHANGELOG.md: every Kotlin source type-checks, and the four JVM
suites - catalog parsing, ROM selection, the v0 migration and JNI name parity -
pass.  None of them reads a file, opens a socket or boots a guest.
MANUAL_CHECKS.md section 8 has twelve that need a device, and three are worth
doing before the others.  Check 1, that Start is pressable on an install with no
ROM: z80cpmw shipped exactly that bug - updateMenuState still required hasROM()
after its ROMs were deleted, so Start was greyed on every fresh install and
Start is the only thing that fetches a ROM - and a person installing the package
found it, because the scripted driver posted the command straight to the window
and never looked at the gating.  Check 2, that a first launch with no network
names the release and the reason instead of hanging, which is the cost this
change deliberately accepts.  And check 9, that a corrupt ROM stops the machine:
there is no bundled ROM left for it to fall back to, so what that check now
watches for is not a silent fallback but a silent boot on anything at all.

- [ANDROID] a ROM is never deleted, including a bad one.  A file that fails
verification is re-downloaded once, and the fetch renames a fully verified
transfer over it - so a failed attempt leaves what was there rather than leaving
nothing, and a ROM a user put in that directory themselves is never removed.
The cost is an unused 512 KB file per withdrawn release, which nothing reclaims.
That is the deliberate side of the trade; if it ever becomes a complaint, the
answer is a user-initiated cleanup, not an automatic one.


THE PACKAGE IS BEHIND THE TREE
-------------------------------

- [RELEASE] nothing since 642b3b0 has shipped to anyone, and that gap is now the
only thing between this port and a release.  RELEASE_TAG is gone from
data/DiskCatalogRepository.kt entirely - the file names index-v0.json and takes
every URL from the documents it fetches - but that is a property of the tree,
not of any installed copy.  No release tag sits on or after 642b3b0; the newest
published one is v1.24 (e7ce4bd, 2026-08-31), and that commit still compiles
RELEASE_TAG = "v1.4.5".  So every
installed copy still fetches ioscpm v1.4.5 and still serves the pre-98eb6a1
w8.com and the R8 that hands an unfiltered host basename to F_DELETE.  What is
left is a build and a Play Store rollout.

  versionCode has moved 27 -> 31 and versionName 1.25 -> 1.29, which unblocks
  the upload.  28 / "1.26" names the disk-name migration alone, 29 / "1.27" the
  catalog repoint and the release picker, 30 / "1.28" the ROM fetched from the
  catalog, and 31 / "1.29" the ROM the user picks with none left in the package;
  whether they go out as one upload or four, no number is reused.
  The history is worth keeping because it is
  how the block happened: both versionCode = 27 and versionName = "1.25" were
  already set at 35873d0, and at that commit DiskCatalogRepository.kt still read
  v1.4.5; the repin came after it in 642b3b0 and bumped neither number, so the
  build that would carry the pin could not go out under a number the published
  1.25 had already spent.  Any of these is spent the moment something is
  uploaded under it - check the App bundle explorer, not this file, before
  reusing one.
romwbw_emu/docs/RELEASE_ORDER_2026-08-25.md owns the order and the reasons; read
it before publishing anything.  This app now bundles neither a disk image nor a
ROM - app/src/main/assets holds the help topics and nothing else - so both
halves are release actions in romwbw_disks, which is where the disks and the
ROMs are published and where a correction reaches users with no build of this
application.

  One thing the rollout does NOT fix, and the v0 rename makes it easier to
  miss rather than harder.  Nothing has ever invalidated an image already on the
  device: disks.xml's version attribute was 13 at v1.4.5 and 13 at v1.4.12
  alike, deliberately, because bumping it deletes the user's downloaded disks.
  hd1k_combo.img is the only one of the twenty whose bytes ever moved, and its
  sha256 is be19984e... at v1.4.5/v1.4.11, 89b8ae1a... at v1.4.12, and
  0ca4ec60... in catalog-v0-3.5.1.json - three different files under what used
  to be one name.  So a device that downloaded the combo under ANY ioscpm pin
  now has bytes that disagree with the v0 catalog, and after the rename they sit
  there under the v0 name with the catalog dialog showing a downloaded tick.
  The rename is still right - it is a rename, it loses nothing, and re-fetching
  49 MB uninvited is not the migration's decision to make - but the disagreement
  is now silent in a way it was not.  DiskDownloadManager.downloadDisk checks
  size and sha256 before replacing anything, but that guards a corrupt download,
  not a stale installed one.  Decide whether this port should re-fetch, or at
  least flag, an image whose installed hash disagrees with the catalog - the
  catalog now publishes a sha256 for every entry, so the check is a hash of a
  local file against a field that is already parsed.  Note that ioscpm has the
  identical hole.

  The ROM added in 1.28 has the same shape of gap and it is worth stating
  separately, because the ROM path looks like it closes it and does not.  A
  downloaded ROM IS hashed on every load - but against the size and sha256
  recorded when it was fetched, not against the catalog's current ones, and
  fetchRomForRelease returns on that check before it reads the index at all.  So
  a release whose ROM is republished under a new hash leaves every device that
  already has the old one using it indefinitely, verifying happily against a
  stale claim.  That is the deliberate reading of "already present and
  verifying: use it, download nothing", and it is right for a corrupt file; it
  is not obviously right for a superseded one.  `generation` is what would
  answer it, and this app records it per release and acts on it in no way - see
  SettingsRepository.noteCatalogGeneration for why acting on it is the iOS bug
  this port must not acquire.  A ROM is 512 KB rather than 49 MB, so re-fetching
  one on a generation change is a far smaller decision than re-fetching disks.

  That stopped being hypothetical on 2026-09-06.  romwbw_disks published
  generation 2 for both releases (72c25c7): HB_BNKCALL was fixed in bank 0, so
  every ROM was rebuilt in place - emu_avw 3.5.1 c7abc580 -> 4b11402a, emu_rcz80
  3.5.1 ee3adea5 -> 03e64691, emu_avw 3.6.0 2f4a6252 -> 01d1ca6d, emu_rcz80
  3.6.0 70196de9 -> 9b204cd7 - while all 44 disk images stayed byte-identical
  and were not re-uploaded.  That is the publishing model now, and
  romwbw_disks docs/RELEASING.md section 5 says why: a correction overwrites the
  asset under the name it already has and bumps the generation, and never gets a
  -r2 name, because all three clients key saved state on the filename.  It also
  says it was safe exactly once, because no installed client could see it.  So
  this is a decision to take BEFORE the first release that fetches a ROM, not
  after: the only device holding a superseded ROM today is one nobody has, and
  the moment a build ships that stops being true.

- [ANDROID] the refreshed images are the only way to reach two paths this port
implements and has never executed: HBF_HOST_CAPS and HBF_HOST_GETNAME.  The
w8.com on the images today neither probes nor asks.  A local check is possible
without waiting for the release - romwbw_emu/disks/hd1k_combo.img already
carries the new r8.com and w8.com, and pushing it onto a device exercises both
- and that is worth doing before the images ship rather than after.

  Add HBF_HOST_GETRNAME (0xEA) to that list.  R8's "Reading:" line now has a
  real answer to print and nothing has ever printed it, and the interesting
  case is not the ordinary one: R8 asks between the open and the read loop, so
  the state is usually still HOST_FILE_WAITING_READ and the honest answer is
  "no answer" - meaning the line SHOULD show what was typed.  A run that shows
  the absolute path instead is not a pass, it is the race landing the other
  way, and it is worth knowing how often it does.


UPSTREAM, NOT HERE
-------------------

- [ROMWBW_EMU] emu_host_path_cap_name() in src/emu_io_common.cc can return the
empty string, and emu_io.h promises in as many words that it cannot: "a result
of "", ".", ".." or a bare drive letter is replaced by `fallback`".  The
head-keeping branch calls back_off_utf8() with no floor, so a component longer
than EMU_HOST_NAME_MAX whose first 255 bytes are continuation bytes backs all
the way to 0.  Reproducer:

    emu_host_path_basename(std::string(256, '\x80'), "download.bin") == ""

  The tail-keeping branch in the same function guards exactly this case, which
  is what makes it an omission rather than a design.  It matters most on a
  write: an empty leaf joined to an export directory names the DIRECTORY.  It
  reaches every port that calls the shared helper, and this one has a guard at
  its own call site (android_host_leaf) so that its copy of the function can
  stay byte-for-byte the original; delete that guard when the floor lands
  upstream and the copy is re-synced.


TERMINAL: WHAT IS STILL NOT THERE
----------------------------------

The parser gained VT52, DECSTBM, DECSC/DECRC, the query replies, ICH/DCH/ECH/
IL/DL/SU/SD, CHA/HPA/VPA, the three private modes, deferred autowrap and
per-cell attributes.  What is left is shorter than what went, and most of it is
absent from the siblings too - which is worth saying, because a gap all three
ports share is a different kind of item from one only this port has.

- [ANDROID] this port prints every byte from 0x20 up, where both siblings stop
at 0x7E.  So 0x7F (DEL) draws a glyph here and nothing there, and so does every
byte from 0x80 to 0xFF - which a CP/M program using the high half of a code page
will emit, and which arrives as whatever the JVM makes of the Char.  This
predates the terminal round and was found during its review; it is the last
divergence in the normal state.

- [ALL PORTS] none of the three has ENQ (0x05) answerback, CNL (CSI E), CPL
(CSI F), REP (CSI b), TBC/HTS, CBT (CSI Z), CHT (CSI I), origin mode (DECOM,
?6), an alternate screen buffer, left/right margins, a tab-stop table, charset
remapping, or OSC/DCS strings.  FF (0x0C) belongs on this list too: it is
discarded here, and neither sibling has a case for it either.  Nothing has
asked for any of them.  Listed so the next cross-port sweep can see they were
considered rather than missed.

- [DELIBERATE, do not report this as a gap again] SGR 0 resets the foreground
to Color.GREEN here, where ioscpm's applySGR and z80cpmw's both reset to CGA 7
light grey.  The green is this app's identity and the owner confirmed keeping
it on 2026-08-29.  DEFAULT_FG and DEFAULT_BG in TerminalView.kt carry the same
note.  A cross-port sweep will keep finding this; it is a divergence that was
chosen.

- [DELIBERATE] ESC[104m is light blue here and normal blue in z80cpmw.  That
port packs a cell into a CGA attribute byte whose background field borders the
blink bit and so folds 100-107 onto 40-47; a cell here is a full ARGB Int with
nothing to borrow, so the bright backgrounds stay bright.  Same asymmetry the
bright foreground range already had.

- [DELIBERATE] SGR 1 does not brighten the foreground here.  z80cpmw's bold
sets CGA bit 3, because in a packed attribute byte bold and bright ARE the same
bit and cannot be separated.  A cell here carries a full ARGB foreground and a
CELL_BOLD flag beside it, so ESC[1m picks the heavy face and leaves the colour
alone - which is what makes ESC[22m undo exactly what ESC[1m did.

- [DELIBERATE] SGR 39 and 49 work here and in neither sibling.  This is the one
divergence in the SGR handler that makes this port MORE conformant, not less,
and it predates the attribute work.


SCROLLBACK IS ROW 2, AND ROW 2 IS NOT LEVEL
--------------------------------------------

Found on 2026-09-02 from the other side: ioscpm's scrollback turned out never to
have captured a line in its life - its line-feed handler called scrollRegion(),
which shifts rows without keeping them, where only scrollUp() appends to the
buffer.  It was fixed there by moving the whole-screen test inside
scrollRegion() so no call site can miss it.  Reading the three ports side by
side to write that up turned up four things here.  None of them was found by a
device; all four are visible in this tree with grep.

Two of the four are closed: the snap-to-live and the keyboard-up rendering were
fixed on 2026-09-02 and are in CHANGELOG.md.  What is left is one deliberate
divergence and one small drawing bug.

- [DELIBERATE, corrected 2026-09-02] a cold boot keeps the previous session's
history, and this was written up here as a defect on the day it was found.  That
was wrong, and clear()'s own docstring says why: "The scrollback itself is
deliberately kept... losing the user's history is a product decision, not part of
putting the terminal back to power-on."  It even names how the siblings differ -
both drop it at the CALL SITE, z80cpmw's startEmulator and onEmulatorReset
calling resetScrollback beside clear(), ioscpm's reset() emptying its buffer -
which here would be MainActivity.  So the divergence is real and intentional, and
FEATURE_PARITY.md item 2's "history cleared on emulator start/reset" is a spec
line the three ports disagree on by choice rather than one of them being broken.
Left here as a decision someone may still want to revisit at the MainActivity
call site, not as a bug.  Worth noting how it was got wrong: the code said so in
a comment nobody read, which is the same failure the parity document made.

- [ANDROID DEVICE] the scrollback fixes of 2026-09-02 have not been watched
run.  There is no SDK, no kotlinc and no emulator on the machine that made them,
so what backs them is a brace-balance check, a line-by-line read against both
siblings, and a port of onDraw's windowing arithmetic to a scratch script that
reproduces the old keyboard-down behaviour exactly and shows the new keyboard-up
window reaching the top of the live screen.  None of that is a screen.  What to
point at it: drag back with the keyboard closed, then open the keyboard and drag
again; run a long DIR and confirm the view stays put while it prints; type a key
and confirm it returns to live; confirm the cursor is absent while scrolled back
and present at the bottom.


PARITY WITH THE OTHER PORTS
----------------------------

z80cpmw's FEATURE_PARITY.md describes this port from outside it, and README.md's
Related Projects section says which of these files back which rows.  After
changing them, run the reporter from here:
    sh ../z80cpmw/tools/check-sibling-drift.sh
It reads only, and exits non-zero when a column is behind the tree it describes.
Correcting a column is an edit in z80cpmw.

- [PARITY] rows 4, 6 and 13 were corrected in z80cpmw on 2026-08-29, and row 13
went from the row where this port was furthest behind to one where it is level
on everything the row measures.  What that edit could NOT do is advance the
sibling-readings block, and the reason is the document's own rule: that line
certifies a reading of the WHOLE column, and rows 4, 6 and 13 are three of
thirteen.  Row 2 was re-read from this tree on 2026-09-02 and rewritten, so what
is left is rows 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12; whoever reads those against
this tree can advance it; until then check-sibling-drift.sh will keep reporting
this column as drifted, which is correct.

- [PARITY] the two capabilities with no row - a bounded import and a receive
intent-filter - were folded into row 4 rather than given a fourteenth row.  Row
4's parity targets were already a lettered list and its heading already says
"arbitrary host paths + a findable data folder"; a new row would have renumbered
every "item 13" and "(#4)" cross-reference in a document that has dozens of
them.  If a future capability needs a row of its own, that is the cost to price.

